
               McDonald Valley Calibration Exercise -- Stage 1

              PROBLEM FORMULATION AND ANALYSIS OF EXISTING DATA


    Stage 1 is the planning phase of the study. Based on the information you
have been given, develop a conceptual model of the flow system. What things
are important with respect to the objectives of your study? After you have a
conceptual model formulated, you need to translate that into discretized form
so that you can use MODFLOW to simulate the system. We have included some
questions that you should consider as you plan your strategy.

    To simplify things for the purposes of this class problem, we will all use
the same areal grid which has 40 rows and 25 columns. The grid cells are
constant 500 foot by 500 foot squares over the entire area. Copies of the grid
are attached to this hand out. You have some freedom to discretize the problem
in the vertical direction. However, you should try to use no more than 4
layers to simulate this problem. Remember, the more layers you have, the more
data you will have to manage when you run your simulations.


                                Study Questions

1.  Sketch a contour map of the water table on the worksheet we have provided.

2.  Describe the elements of the hydrogeology of this system that you believe
    will be most important in your analysis.

3.  Describe how you would treat the boundary conditions and stresses.

4.  On the grid worksheet, label the cells that would be used to simulate the 
    lake and river. How will you incorporate the effects of the lake and river
    into those cells.

5.  Describe how you would discretize the system in the vertical dimension.

6.  On one of your maps, mark the portion of the lake shore where ground water
    discharges to the lake. Do the same for the portion of the lake shore
    where flow is from the lake to the ground water system.

7.  Write a water budget equation for the lake. Is the lake a net source or
    sink of water for the ground water system?  Can you make a quantitative 
    estimate of the net rate of ground water recharge or discharge due to the 
    lake?
    
8.  What is the total recharge to McDonald Valley and how is it distributed?

 

