              McDonald Valley Calibration Exercise -- Stage 3

                MODIFIED CALIBRATION USING ADDITIONAL DATA


Now that you have made a first attempt at calibrating a flow model to existing
data, you have the opportunity to collect additional data in the field to help
fill in the gaps in information and, we hope, improve your model of the ground
water system. After subtracting essential overhead expenses, you have a field
work budget of $20,000 for the total duration of the study. You will have
three "field seasons" in which you can collect new data. You should use the
three field seasons to iterate back and forth between data collection and
analysis, analyzing the impact of one season's data to plan the next round of
data collection.

You have the option to collect the following types of data:

1. drill wells 

     shallow wells -- down to a maximum elevation of -100 feet. Shallow 
                      wells provide water levels for the screened interval 
                      as well as the location of the water table. You specify
                      the bottom elevation of the well. All wells are
                      are assumed to be screened in the lower 5 feet.
                      Each well comes with a driller's log that includes 
                      information on major lithology changes with depth.

     deep wells    -- deep wells are guaranteed to reach bedrock. Water 
                      level information, screened intervals, and well log
                      information are the same as described for shallow 
                      wells.

2. hydraulic tests

     slug tests    -- these tests give local values of horizontal hydraulic
                      conductivity. You can conduct up to 7 slug tests on
                      any of the 17 pre-existing wells and any number of 
                      slug tests on the wells that you choose to drill.

     aquifer test  -- this is a large-scale hydraulic test that must be
                      conducted on a deep well. Since deep wells are always
                      screened in the lower 5 feet, this test will give you
                      horizontal conductivity and aquifer thickness. It will
                      also provide a leakance coefficient if the well
                      penetrates a confining clay layer. You cannot conduct
                      an aquifer test on any of the original 17 wells, nor
                      can you drill new wells in cells that already contain
                      a well.

3. seismic analysis 

     Seismic sections can be run along any row or column. Each run must be 
     the full length of a column or a row. Seismic analyses only provide 
     information on the bedrock elevation. (Please, no arguments from surface
     geophysicists!)

4. Stream flow measurements

     Discharge measurements are provided at several points along the Straight 
     River.

In order to keep track of your expenditures, an accounting form has been
provided. the last page of the accounting form has a table of costs for each
data item. 


